Accountability: The obligation to demonstrate that responsibility is being taken both for the means used and the results achieved in light of agreed expectations.
Activity: An operation or work process an organization performs, which uses inputs to produce outputs. E.g., Training, research, construction, negotiation and investigation.
Attribution: The extent to which a reasonable causal connection can be made between a specific outcome and the activities and outputs of a government policy, program or initiative. (Attribution)
Cost Effectiveness: - The extent to which an organization, program, policy or initiative is using the most appropriate and efficient means in achieving its expected results relative to alternative design and delivery approaches.
Effectiveness: The extent to which an organization, policy, program or initiative is meeting its expected results. A related term is "Cost Effectiveness".
Efficiency: The relationship between the outputs and results of an organization, policy, program or initiative and the resources used to produce them.
Evaluation: The application of systematic methods to periodically and objectively assess effectiveness of programs in achieving expected results, their impacts, both intended and unintended and continued relevance as well as alternative or more cost-effective ways of achieving expected results.
Expected Result: An outcome that a program, policy or initiative is designed to produce. 
Governance: The processes and structures through which decision-making authority is exercised. E.g., An effective governance structure ensures individuals or groups of individuals are responsible for setting policy directions, priorities, taking investment decisions, re-allocating resources, and designing programs.
Government of Canada Outcome: The long-term and enduring benefits to Canadians that more than one federal department or agency is working to achieve. E.g., An Innovative and Knowledge-based Economy
Horizontal Initiative: An initiative in which partners from two or more organizations have established a formal funding agreement (e.g. Memorandum to Cabinet, Treasury Board submission, federal-provincial agreement) to work toward the achievement of shared outcomes. E.g., Canada's Drug Strategy, Measures to Combat Organized Crime Initiative.
HRMAF: Horizontal Results-Based Management and Accountability Framework-  A framework that ensures horizontal initiatives and policy-program domains have adequate governance and accountability structures, are logically designed and have in place the processes and structures necessary to measure and report on performance. E.g., Measures to Combat Organized Crime Initiative RMAF.
Initiative: A priority outcome articulated by the government of Canada and the means to achieve it. It may involve one or more departments, and one or more programs.
Performance criteria: A variable used to characterize or determine success of an organization, program, policy or initiative in producing outputs or achieving expected outcomes. E.g., client satisfaction.
Input: The financial and non-financial resources used by organizations to implement policies, programs and initiatives to produce outputs and accomplish outcomes. E.g., Funds, personnel, equipment and supplies.
Logic Model: A depiction of the causal or logical relationships between activities inputs, outputs and the outcomes of a given policy, program or initiative. E.g., Results Chain (Modèle logique)
MRRS: Management Resources and Results Structure  A comprehensive framework that consists of an organization's inventory of activities, resources, results, performance measurement and governance information. Activities and results are depicted in their logical relationship to each other and to the Strategic Outcome(s) to which they contribute. The MRRS is developed from a Program Activity Architecture (PAA).
Outcome: An external consequence attributed, in part, to an organization, policy, program or initiative. Outcomes are not within the control of a single organization, policy, program or initiative; instead they are within the area of the organization's influence. Outcomes are usually further qualified as immediate, intermediate, or ultimate (final), expected, direct, etc.
Immediate Outcome: an outcome that is directly attributable to a policy, program or initiative's outputs. In terms of time frame and level, these are short-term outcomes and are often at the level of an increase in awareness of a target population.
Intermediate Outcome: an outcome that is expected to logically occur once one or more immediate outcomes have been achieved. In terms of time frame and level, these are medium-term outcomes and are often at the change of behaviour level among a target population.
Final Outcome: the highest-level outcome that can be reasonably attributed to a policy, program or initiative in causal manner, and is the consequence of one or more intermediate outcomes having been achieved. These outcomes usually represent the raison d'être of a policy, program or initiative. They are long-term outcomes that represent a change of state of a target population. Ultimate outcomes of individual programs, policies or initiatives contribute to the higher-level departmental Strategic Outcomes.
Output: Direct products or services stemming from the activities of an organization, policy, program or initiative, and usually within the control of the organization itself. E.g., pamphlet, research study, water treatment plant and training session
Performance: What a government did with its resources to achieve its results, how well those results compare to what the government intended to achieve and how well lessons learned have been identified.
Performance Indicator: (Performance measure) A qualitative or quantitative means of measuring an output or outcome, with the intention of gauging the performance of an organization, program, policy or initiative respecting expected results. Quantitative performance measures are composed of a number and a unit. The number provides the magnitude (how much) and the unit gives the number its meaning (what). E.g., number of written complaints received.
Performance measure: A qualitative or quantitative means of measuring an output or outcome, with the intention of gauging the performance of an organization, program, policy or initiative respecting expected results. Quantitative performance measures are composed of a number and a unit. The number provides the magnitude (how much) and the unit gives the number its meaning (what). E.g., number of written complaints received.
Performance Measurement: The process and systems of selection, development and on-going use of performance measures to guide decision-making.
Performance Monitoring: The ongoing, systematic process of collecting, analyzing and using performance information to assess and report on an organization's progress in meeting expected results and, if necessary, make adjustments to ensure these results are achieved.
Performance Reporting: The process of communicating evidence-based performance information. Performance reporting supports decision-making, accountability and transparency.
Policy: Government legislation, regulation, official guidelines or operating principles that influence behaviour towards a stated outcome. As an example, the Canada Health Act.
Plans: The articulation of strategic choices, which provides information on how an organization intends to achieve its priorities and associated results. Generally a plan will explain the logic behind the strategies chosen and tend to focus on actions that lead up to the expected result.
Priorities (for RPP): Plans or projects that an organization has chosen to focus and report on during the planning period. They represent the things that are most important or what must be done first to support the achievement of the desired Strategic Outcome(s).
Program: A group of related activities that are designed and managed to meet a specific public need and often treated as a budgetary unit.
PAA: Program Activity Architecture- An inventory of all the activities undertaken by a department or agency. The activities are depicted in their logical relationship to each other and to the Strategic Outcome(s) to which they contribute. The PAA is the initial document for the establishment of a Management Resource and Results Structure (MRRS).
PPA, Horizontal: Program Activity Architecture, Horizontal- An inventory of all programs and initiatives in a horizontal policy-program domain and their relationship to outcomes.
Reach: The target that a given program or organization is intended to influence, including individuals and organizations, clients, partners, and other stakeholders (see Target Group).
RPP: Reports on Plans and Priorities-  As part of the Main Estimates, the RPPs provide information on departmental plans and expected performance over a three-year period. These reports are tabled in Parliament each spring, after resource allocation deliberations. They include information on the department or agency's mission or mandate, strategic outcomes, strategies, plans and performance targets.
Result: Results are the same as outcomes. See outcome definition.
Result Chain: See Logic model.
Results-based Management: A comprehensive, lifecycle approach to management that integrates strategy, people, resources, processes and measurements to improve decision-making and drive change. The approach focuses on getting the right design early in a process, foussing on outcomes, implementing performance measurement, learning and changing, and reporting performance.
RMAF: Results-based Management and Accountability Framework - A document which outlines the rationale, theory, resources and governance and accountability structures of a program policy or initiative and sets out a plan to measure, monitor and report on results throughout the lifecycle of the policy, program or initiative. RMAFs are intended to assist departments in achieving the expected results of their policy, program or initiative.
Strategic Outcome: A long-term and enduring benefit to Canadians that stems from a department or agency's mandate, vision and efforts. It represents what a department or agency wants to do for Canadians and should be a clear measurable outcome that is within the department or agency's sphere of influence.
Target: A measurable performance or success level that an organization, program or initiative plans to achieve within a specified time period. Targets can be either quantitative or qualitative and are appropriate for both outputs and outcomes. E.g., 70% of Canadian households will own their own home in 2006.
Target Group: The set of individuals that an activity is intended to influence.
Target Population: The set of individuals that an activity is intended to influence.
